Hello and welcome to this new tutorial.
All right.
Back in our ad can I see your contract in the preexistence or we introduce the public variables that
anyone will have access including the persons outside of the contract.
And now we're going to make a mapping from the investor address so it will be like it's public key it's
public address to both it's equity and at coins and USD.
So for example if the investor has $1000 invested in whatever platform that holds the coins and runs
the CEO well on this platform the investor will have an equity of one thousand dollars and one million
at coin's because one U.S. dollar equals 1000 coins.
So let's make this mapping.
And actually we're going to make two mappings because in order to get both these two equities and coins
and USD Well we'll have to make two mappings.
But before we make them let's make sure we understand what exactly a mapping is.
A mapping is like a function but in which the data of the mapping is stored in an array.
So you know it's not exactly like a function that takes a variable and returns an operation of this
very well.
It's more like an array in which will have the input variable which will be the investor address and
which will return for each of these addresses the equity.
So one of these mapping will return the equity in coins and the other mapping will return the equity
in USD.
And so now to make a mapping in-city we simply start with knapping then some parenthesis and then in
these parenthesis we must put first the type of the input which is an address because the input will
be the address of the investor and the address is a type and solidity.
As we can see here.
So we first need to hear the input type which is address.
Then we add an error like this and then eventually the type of the output which will be a huge integer
because we want to return the equity and the equity is of course an integer you know will not be able
to invest $1 cents.
So just it's just going to be an integer and therefore that's what we have to specify here the type
which is again.
Okay.
And then that's not over here that's where you have to give the name of the variable that will contain
the value returned by this mapping.
Taking the address's argument as its input.
And so the name of this horrible will be we can say the equity in at coin's just like that.
So we define the mapping taking as input the address of the investor which will return an integer as
a type of the variable returns and the name of this variable returns will be equity at coin's getting
the equity in coin's of the investor.
All right.
And then let's not forget that semicolon especially when you're used to Python.
OK and now we're going to define the second mapping.
So I just selected this and compute it and just below I'm pasting it.
All right.
And so this second mapping is of course a mapping from the address of the investor.
Still returning a variable of type integer.
But this time this variable returns will not be the equity in at coin's but in U.S. dollars equity USD.
All right.
Congratulations you defined your first mapping incivility.
So that was a no brainer quite easy.
We just made like some arrays that basically make a mapping from the investor's addresses to their equity
in both coins and us.
All right so we're making some good progress then in the next to toile we'll make a modifier.
Why is modifier emulsifiers something that will check if an investor can buy or sell some at point he
or she will always be able to sell some coins.
No problem about that.
But this person will not be able to buy some coins if they're not at coins left.
So we'll have to make this more if I were to check that there is still some Adkins left.
And if that's the case the money I will give it's OK for the investor to buy some at coins.
So we'll make this in the next Statoil.
And until then.
And Joe hence.